Personal Details
================

Name Peter James [KOOTSOOKOS]{.underline}

Citizenship Australia, Ireland, USA

Telephone 

+1 860 269 0080 (Work)
+1 860 206 7488 (Home)
+1 860 543 5917 (Cell)

Home Address 

119 High Wood Road, West Hartford, CT 06117-1123, USA

E-mail Address <p.kootsookos@ieee.org>

Skills
======

*Project management*: project leadership, project planning, team
building, execution, highly distributed teams.

*Full life-cycle systems engineering*: requirements, analysis, design,
verification, validation, delivery.

*Software development*: C, C++, C\#, Java, JavaScript, Swift and CASE
tools (Rhapsody / Rational Rose) on a variety of platforms (Linux /
Solaris / Windows / ThreadX / VxWorks / Android / iOS); process
automation for build and quality assurance.

*Quality processes worked with:* IS09001-2000, CMMI, ACE (UTC's
**A**chieving **C**ompetitive **E**xcellence)

*Algorithm discovery, analysis and development*: I have more than 40
technical publications in conferences and international journals.

Grants and Awards
=================

***2008 UTC Fire & Security President\'s Award for Product Innovation***
Part of a team that delivered the Modular Video Platform to market.

***2008 Talbert Abrams Award (second runner-up**)* This award recognizes
an outstanding contribution to the field of aerial photography and
mapping for the paper \"Detection and Vectorization of Roads from Lidar
Data,\" PE&RS 73, (5), 517-535.

***2004 IEEE Outstanding Chapter Award*** Prof. Ljubo Vlacic, the
receiver of this award, asked me to accept the 2005 Outstanding Chapter
Award on his behalf for the Queensland Sections Joint Chapter on
Robotics & Automation / Automatic Control at the IEEE\'s Control &
Decision Conference in the Bahamas.Â  Prof. Vlacic and I worked closely
together through both Engineers Australia and IEEE to facilitate the
meetings and workshops that this award recognizes.

***2002 APA(I) with AAM Geoscan*** Kurt Kubik and colleagues from QUT
applied for an APA(I) with AAM Geoscan. I took over running this project
with AAM. The scholarship supported Simon Clode in his PhD work.

***2000 Venture Capital Funding for eMuse*** As VP Software Engineering
for eMuse, I was responsible for the technical side of the company's
operations. eMuse, through a great business model and an innovative
technical implementation gained USD 8m in venture capital.

***1999/2000 IDA Grant*** eMuse applied for an IDA (Irish Development
Authority) grant for R&D. We obtained approximately IEP250k for this
grant.

***1987-1991 Commonwealth Postgraduate Research Award*** for
postgraduate study in Australian universities (later called Australian
Postgraduate Research Award).

***ISSPA\'90 Best Poster Presentation of a Paper by a Full-time
Student*** International Symposium on Signal Processing and its
Applications prize for paper entitled A Critical Examination of
Time-Frequency Filtering.

***1986 University of Queensland Maude Walker Scholarship*** for a
recent Electrical Engineering graduate continuing to postgraduate study
in Electrical Engineering most able to do so (awarded March 6, 1987).

 Membership of Professional Organizations
=========================================

I am a Senior Member of the Institution of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers (IEEE). I was Chair of the Connecticut Section of IEEE for
2016-2017. In 2019, I am the Awards committee Chair and the Vice-Chair
of the technical joint chapter of the Computer, Systems, Man, &
Cybernetics, and the Social Implications of Technology Societies.

Employment History
==================

### Adjunct, Fairfield University (01/2017 to present)

Employed as an adjunct professor teaching:

-   *SW0400/0300/0201 Software Engineering Methods*: Use of UML to
    capture software requirements and perform software design. SW0400 is
    the postgraduate variant. SW0201 was renumbered SW0300

-   *SW416 Mobile Application Development:* Develop a mobile application
    from scratch using the Xamarin C\# development tool from Microsoft.

-   *SW0421 Software Project Management:* Tools and techniques for
    estimating, planning, and executing software projects from a project
    management viewpoint. Traditional waterfall and agile methodologies
    are taught, with an emphasis on traditional methodologies.

### Adjunct, Central Connecticut State University (08/2017 to present)

Employed as an adjunct professor (emergency faculty during Fall 2018)
teaching:

-   *CET236 Circuit Analysis:* Teaching introductory circuit analysis
    for DC and AC circuits. Ohm's law, mesh analysis, nodal analysis,
    superposition, maximum power transfer, Thevenin equivalents, Norton
    equivalents, phasors, steady state, and transient analysis.
    (F17,S18,F18,S19,SM19[^1],F19[^2])

-   *CET363 Digital Circuits:* Introduction to digital circuits and
    number systems, boolean algebra, combinatorial and sequential logic
    circuits, MSI logic circuits. (F18)

-   *CET466 Logic Design:* Use of VHDL to implement digital designs.
    (F18)

-   *CET497/498*[^3] *Capstone I & II:* Leading teams of senior students
    in developing their capstone projects. (S19/F19)

### Software Architect, Noster Mobile (02/2013 to 12/2018)

Worked with eMuse's sister company to develop the Hopr location-based
mobile application (Android & iOS) for finding interesting places to go.
Currently adding social media advertising options for paid customers.

### TBC, eMuse Technologies (12/2010 to 12/2018)

Designed, developed, and deployed eMuse's Advertisement Decisioning
System (ADS), the highly scalable advertisement selection subsystem of
the Raven content management tool for digital video operators. Raven/ADS
is deployed production broadcast networks in AT&T U-Verse in the United
States and SwissCom in Switzerland.

### Adjunct, University of New Haven (09/2011 to 05/2013)

Employed as an adjunct teaching postgraduate courses:

-   *EE 6634 Digital Signal Processing I*: Fundamental concepts and
    applications digital signal processing. (S14)

-   *EE 635 Digital Signal Processing II:* Introduction to adaptive
    filters. (F11, F12)

-   *EE 649 Wireless Communications:* Fundamental concepts and
    applications in wireless communications. (S13)

-   *EE 670 Special Topics:* Taught a digital signal processing lab
    using the TMS320 chips. (S12)

-   *EE 653/CS 665 Digital Image Processing:* Fundamental concepts and
    applications in image processing. (W12)

### Project Leader, UTC Fire & Security (5/2006 to 11/2010)

System requirements, software engineering and quality assurance for the
Next Generation Panel: an embedded Linux system that performs access
control (door control) and intrusion detection (burglar alarm) for
500,000 badges over 130 doors. The system integrates tightly with
Lenel\'s OnGuard 2010 software.

From May 2006 to May 2008 I led the Service Efficiency project at UTCFS
for enabling remote services for UTCFS products. The software and
hardware systems that the UTRC team developed were moved to the relevant
UTC operating unit. The initial support is for the Resonance range of
fire panels and Verex / Lenel DVRs. Passport 4 (product release) for the
Resonance piece occurred in May 2008.

### Staff Engineer, United Technologies Research Center (6/2004 to 4/2006)

Individual contributor at UTRC working on projects mostly associated
with the Chubb (now UTC Fire & Security) business unit. The work
involved the full product life-cycle:

-   Unearthing customer needs through interviews with system
    participants.

-   Leading a small team for software requirements elicitation and
    documentation.

-   Architecting the complete system.

-   Managing a contract software team to deliver the required software
    component.

-   Elicitation of user feedback on GUI aspects of the software.

-   Verification of the software against the requirements.

-   Preparing technical and management review materials.

### Senior Lecturer / Associate Professor, University of Queensland (2/2002 to 5/2004)

Senior Lecturer / Associate Professor in the School of Information
Technology and Electrical Engineering. Research interests are in the
area of industrial image and video signal processing applications.
Advised or co-advised three PhD students:

N. Liu: *Hand gesture recognition by hidden Markov models*, completed
2004, (advisor: B. C. Lovell).

S. Clode: *Automated Vector Extraction from Airborne Laser Scan Data*,
current, (co-advisor: K. Kubik)

S. Lehmann: *Estimation of 3D rigid body transformations from image
sequences*, current, (advisor: A. Bradley)

Taught:

-   *COMS2000 Introductory Networking:* Fundamental concepts and
    applications of networking.

-   *COMS4200 Advanced Networks (Unix Networking in C):* Advanced
    networking course in design and implementation of protocols in C
    using the Unix (Ultrix / Linux) operating system.

-   *COMP2301 Systems Interface Programming:* A pass/fail course
    introducing students to a variety of different programming
    languages: Visual Basic, C, and C++.

### Haptica -- Consultant on Image Processing (12/2001 to 2/2002)

Consulting work for Haptica in the area of embedded imaging.

### eMuse Technologies -- VP Research & Development (10/1998 to 10/2001)

Vice-President, Research & Development after being Vice-President,
Software Engineering. Investigated and developed techniques for the
embedding, broadcasting and receiving of interactive content via
DVB/MPEG-2 digital television systems and iMode mobile phone systems.
The system can be deployed on OpenTV, Liberate, MHP and most other
set-top box operating systems. I built up the Software Engineering team
to build and support this product into a group of approximately 25
people.

### MVT[^4] - Senior Software Engineer (03/1997 to 10/1998)

Development and integration of 3D image acquisition hardware and
software into an existing inspection system. The software development
was done on Windows/NT using Microsoft VC++5.0.

### CRASys - Senior Research Engineer (Level C) (01/1996 to 02/1997)

Research work on the following topics: condition monitoring, development
of a versatile industrial signal processing platform and initialization
of adaptive systems. The condition monitoring involved fieldwork at
BHP\'s Hot Strip Mill at Port Kembla.

### CRASys - Research Engineer (Level B) (07/1995 to 12/1995)

For 50% of the time in this period worked with the CRC for Robust and
Adaptive Systems (CRASys) working on industrial research problems.

### ANU - Lecturer (Level B) (01/1994 to 12/1995)

Teaching three subjects:

-   *ENGN3001 Digital Design:* Introduction to digital circuit design.

-   *ENGN3005 Signals and Systems:* Introduction to linear systems.

-   *ENGN4021 Digital Signal Processing:* Digital signal processing
    fundamental theory and applications.

In 1995, I taught ENGN3005 and ENG4021. Supervised or co-supervised
seven final year projects.

### ANU - A.R.C. Senior Research Associate (07/1993 to 12/1993)

Investigated microphone array design for teleconferencing use in an
office environment. Also taught one-half of a fourth-year engineering
Digital Signal Processing course (ENGN4021).

### CRASys - Research Fellow (Level B) (07/1992 to 07/1993)

Research Fellow at DSTO, Salisbury. Worked on the Frequency Estimation
and Tracking Project. The two aims of the project were to examine
existing and develop new algorithms for the estimation and tracking of
frequency, with particular application to towed hydrophone array data.

### UQ - Visiting Fellowship (01/1992 to 06/ 1992)

With the Speaker Verification Group at the University of Queensland
investigating noise suppression algorithms for use in a large-database
speaker verification system. I implemented a Kalman
Filter/Smoother-based algorithm and investigated some adaptive and
nonlinear techniques.

University Education
====================

B.E. (Elec. Hons. 1) December 1986, University of Queensland, Australia

M.Eng.Sc. (Electrical) November 1989, Thesis title: *A Critical
Examination of Time-Frequency Filtering,* University of Queensland,
Australia

Ph.D. October 1992, Thesis title: *FIR(q) Filter Designs Using
H-infinity Techniques, Australian National University*

Grad. Cert. in Systems Design and Management (SDM) September 2006, MIT

References
==========

References are available upon request.

Publications
============

General Articles 
-----------------

1.  P.J. Kootsookos, Letter to the editor, \"Unis dumb down for foreign
    cash,\" Sydney Morning Herald, 08/05/2005.

2.  S. Clode, P.J. Kootsookos, F. Rottensteiner, \"Accurate Building
    Outlines from ALS Data\", in preparation for Spatial Science
    Queensland, the magazine of the Spatial Science Institute of
    Queensland, February 2005 issue*.*

3.  P.J. Kootsookos and I.V.L. Clarkson, \"Australian Communications
    Theory Workshop 2004,\" *Monitor,* vol. 29(1), February 2004, p7.

4.  P.J. Kootsookos, "Lies and Statistics" Column, Weekend Australian
    Financial Review, 01-02/11/2003
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10625/Queues.pdf)\].

5.  P.J. Kootsookos, Letter to the editor, "Disinformation on Digital
    Television", Sydney Morning Herald, 23/12/1999.

Patent
------

1.  J. Mahon, S. O\'Neill, P.J. Conlon, P.J. Kootsookos, "System for
    measuring solder bumps," Patent No. EP0935135A1
    [\[eprint\]](https://patentimages.storage.googleapis.com/6d/8a/bb/2da0efc93922ab/EP0935135A1.pdf)

Theses
------

1.  P.J. Kootsookos, "FIR(*q*) Filter Designs Using H-infinity
    Techniques," Ph.D. thesis, Australian National University, 1992.

2.  P.J. Kootsookos, "A Critical Examination of Time-Frequency
    Filtering," M.Eng.Sc. thesis, University of Queensland, 1989.

Book Chapters
-------------

1.  P.J. Kootsookos and R.R. Bitmead, "The Nehari Shuffle and Minimax
    FIR Filter Design," Control and Dynamic Systems series, Volume 64
    (Part 1), Advances in Theory and Applications edited by Prof. C.T.
    Leondes, Academic Press, 1994, pp. 239-298.

2.  E. Jacobson and P.J. Kootsookos, \"Fast, Accurate Frequency
    Estimators,\"Â  in *Streamlining Digital Signal Processing: A Tricks
    of the Trade Guidebook (Paperback),* Richard G. Lyons (Editor),
    Wiley-IEEE Press 2007, pp. 107-116.

Guest Editor
------------

1.  P. J. Kootsookos, "DASP\'06 - Defense Applications of Signal
    Processing," Digital Signal Processing, Volume 19, Issue 6, December
    2009, pages 903-998.

Published Journal Papers
------------------------

1.  E. Jacobsen, P. J. Kootsookos, \"Fast, Accurate Frequency
    Estimators,\" IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, vol. 24(3), May 2007
    pp.123-125.

2.  Simon Clode, Franz Rottensteiner, Peter Kootsookos, Emanuel Zelniker
    \"Detection and Vectorisation of Roads from LIDAR Data,\"
    Photogrammetric Engineering and Remote Sensing, May 2007, pp.
    517-526.[^5]

3.  J. Homer, P.J. Kootsookos, V. Selvaraju, "Enhanced NLMS Adaptive
    Array Via DOA Detection," IET Communications, vol. 1, Issue. 1, Feb.
    2007 pp. 19-26.

4.  Stefan Lehmann, Andrew P. Bradley, I. Vaughan L. Clarkson, John
    Williams, Peter J. Kootsookos, \"Correspondence-Free Determination
    of the Affine Fundamental Matrix,\" IEEE Transactions on Pattern
    Analysis and Machine Intelligence, vol. 29, no. 1, Jan. 2007, pp.
    82-97.

5.  P.J. Kootsookos, D.B. Ward, R.C. Williamson, "Imposing Pattern Nulls
    on Broadband Array Responses," Journal of the Acoustical Society of
    America, Vol. 105 (6), June 1999, pp. 3390-3398.
    [\[eprint\]](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:11307)

6.  Y.-F. Wang and P.J. Kootsookos, "Modelling of Low Shaft Speed
    Bearing Faults for Condition Monitoring," Mechanical Systems and
    Signal Processing, Vol. 12, No. 3, May 1998, pp. 415-426.
    [\[eprint\]](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10968)

7.  P.J. Kootsookos and J.M. Spanjaard, "An Extended Kalman Filter for
    Demodulating Polynomial Phase Signals," IEEE Signal Processing
    Letters, vol. 5(3), March 1998, pp. 69-70.
    [\[eprint\]](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:11308)

8.  B.G. Quinn, V. Clarkson, P.J. Kootsookos, "Comments on 'On the
    performance of the weighted linear predictor frequency estimator',"
    IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, vol. 46(2), February 1998,
    pp. 526-527.
    [\[eprint\]](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:11304)

9.  P.J. Kootsookos and R.C. Williamson, "FIR Approximation of
    Fractional Sample Delay Systems," IEEE Transactions on Circuits and
    Systems II: Analog and Digital Signal Processing, vol. 43(3), March
    1996, pp. 269-271.
    [\[eprint\]](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:11248)

10. B.G. Quinn and P.J. Kootsookos, "Threshold Behaviour of the Maximum
    Likelihood Estimator of Frequency," IEEE Transactions on Signal
    Processing, Vol. 42, November 1994, pp. 3291-3294.
    [\[eprint\]](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10972)

11. V. Clarkson, P.J. Kootsookos and B.G. Quinn, "Analysis of the
    variance of Kay\'s Weighted Linear Predictor Frequency Estimator,"
    IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, Vol. 42, September 1994, pp.
    2370-2379.
    [\[eprint\]](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10970)

12. R.C. Williamson, B. James, B.D.O. Anderson and P.J. Kootsookos,
    "Threshold Effects in Multiharmonic Maximum Likelihood Frequency
    Estimation," Signal Processing Vol. 37, 1994 pp. 309-331.
    [\[eprint\]](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10969)

13. B.G. Quinn, R.F. Barrett, P.J. Kootsookos and S.J. Searle, "The
    Estimation of the Shape of an Array Using a Hidden Markov Model,"
    IEEE Journal of Oceanic Engineering, Vol. 18, October 1993, pp.
    557-564.
    [\[eprint\]](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:11277)

14. P.J. Kootsookos, B.C. Lovell and B. Boashash, "A Unified Approach to
    the STFT, TFDs and Instantaneous Frequency," IEEE Transactions on
    Signal Processing, Vol. 40, August 1992, pp. 1971-1982.
    [\[eprint\]](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:11271)

15. P.J. Kootsookos, R.R. Bitmead and M. Green, "The Nehari Shuffle:
    FIR(*q*) Filter Design with Guaranteed Error Bounds,"Â  IEEE
    Transactions on Signal Processing, Vol. 40, August 1992, pp.
    1876-1883.
    [\[eprint\]](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:11246)

Published Conference Papers
---------------------------

1.  P.J. Kootsookos, \"Target Estimation Using Binary Sensors,\" 5th Workshop on Defence Applications of Signal Processing, Fraser Island, Australia, December 10-14, 2006.

2.  Payman Sadegh, Julio Concha, Slaven Stricevic, Adrian Thompson, and Peter J. Kootsookos, \"A Framework for Unified Design of Fault Detection & Isolation and Optimal Maintenance Policies,\" Submitted to: American Control Conference 2006, Special Session on PHM. \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:8534)\]

3.  J. Homer, P.J. Kootsookos, V. Selvaraju,Â  "DOA-Detection Guided NLMS
    Adaptive Array,"Â EUSIPCO 2005, Antalya, Turkey, September 4-8, 2005.
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:9011)\]

4.  S. Clode, F. Rottensteiner, and Peter J. Kootsookos, \"Improving
    City Model Determination By Using Road Detection From Lidar Data,\"
    Joint Workshop of ISPRS and the German Association for Pattern
    Recognition (DAGM), \'Object Extraction for 3D City Models, Road
    Databases and Traffic Monitoring - Concepts, Algorithms, and
    Evaluation\' (CMRT05), Vienna, Austria, August 29-30, 2005.
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:102031)\]

5.  Stefan Lehmann, I. Vaughan L. Clarkson, Andrew P. Bradley, John
    Williams, and Peter J. Kootsookos, \"Robust Fundamental Matrix
    Determination without Correspondences," APRS Workshop on Digital
    Image Computing,Â February 21^st^, 2005, Brisbane.
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:9770)\]

6.  Stefan Lehmann, Vaughan Clarkson, and Peter Kootsookos, \"An
    Integral Projection Approach to 3D Rigid Body Transformations,\"
    Asilomar Conference on Signals, Systems, and Computers, Asilomar
    Hotel and Conference Grounds, Pacific Grove, CA, USA, November
    7-10, 2004.
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:9009)\]

7.  Nianjun Liu, Brian C. Lovell, Peter J. Kootsookos and Richard I.A.
    Davis. \"Model Structure Selection & Training Algorithms for a HMM
    Gesture Recogniser,\" the 9th IAPR International Workshop on
    Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition (IWFHR-9)}, Tokyo, Japan.
    October 26-29, 2004.
    [\[eprint\]](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10268)

8.  Nianjun Liu, Brian C. Lovell, Peter J. Kootsookos and Richard I.A.
    Davis, \" Understanding HMM Training for Video Gesture
    Recognition,\" IEEE TENCON 2004, Chang Mai, Thailand. 21-24,
    November 2004
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10225)\].

9.  Simon Clode, Peter Kootsookos, Franz Rottensteiner, \"Accurate
    Building Outlines from ALS Data,\" 12th Australasian Remote Sensing
    and Photogrammetry Conference, Fremantle, Western Australia 18-22
    October 2004.
    [\[eprint\]](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10313)

10. S. Clode, E. E. Zelniker, P.J. Kootsookos, I.V.L. Clarkson, "A
    Phase-Coded Kernel Approach to Vectorisation of Thick Lines,"
    EUSIPCO, Vienna, September 7-10, 2004.Â Â 
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:9777)\]

11. Simon Clode, Peter Kootsookos, Franz Rottensteiner, "The Automatic
    Extraction of Roads from LIDAR data," ISPRS 2004, 12 - 23Â Â  July
    2004, Istanbul, Turkey.
    Â \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:9007)\]

12. N. Liu, R.I.A. Davis, B.C. Lovell, P.J. Kootsookos, "Effect of
    Initial HMM Choices in Multiple Sequence Training for Gesture
    Recognition," Proceedings of the International Conference on
    Information Technology 2004, Las Vegas, April 5 -- 7, 2004,
    pp608-613.
    [\[eprint\]](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10408)

13. J. Homer, V. Selvaraju, P.J. Kootsookos, "Enhanced adaptive array
    performance via DOA detection"Â Proceedings of the 5th Australian
    Communications Theory Workshop, Newcastle, Feb 2004, pp. 28-32
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10634)\].

14. N. Liu,Â Â Â  B.C. Lovell, and P.J. Kootsookos, "Evaluation of HMM
    Training Algorithms for Letter Hand Gesture Recognition,"
    Proceedings of IEEE ISSPIT 2003, Darmstadt, Germany.
    [\[eprint\]](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10706)

15. C. Walder, B.C. Lovell, P.J. Kootsookos, "Algebraic Curve Fitting
    Support Vector Machines," Proceedings ofÂ  DICTA2003, Volume II,
    Sydney 2003, pp693-792
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10633)\].

16. C. Walder, P.J. Kootsookos and B.C. Lovell,Â "Towards a Maximum
    Entropy Method for Estimating HMM Parameters" APRS Workshop on
    Digital Image Computing,Â February 7^th^, 2003, Brisbane pp. 45-50.
    [\[eprint\]](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10980)

17. B.C. Lovell, P.J. Kootsookos and I.D. Longstaff, "On the Open-Ended
    Classifier Problem in the Context of Human Face Recognition and
    Tracking in Cluttered Visual Environments," Proceedings of DICTA99,
    Perth 7-8 December 1999, pp. 201-205
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10654)\].

18. Y.-F. Wang and P.J. Kootsookos, "Frequency Estimation in the Fault
    Detection of Rolling Element Bearing,"Â ICSV5, Adelaide, December
    1997 \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10592)\].

19. Y.-F. Wang and P.J. Kootsookos, "Simulation of Low Shaft Speed
    Bearing Faults under a Heavy Load," ICSV5, Adelaide, December 1997
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10591)\].

20. A.J. Connolly, B.F. La Scala, P.J. Kootsookos, "Closed-loop
    Frequency Tracking and Rejection" IFAC Conference on Control of
    Industrial Systems, Belfort, France, May 1997.
    [\[eprint\]](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10967)

21. A. J. Connolly, M. Green, B. F. La Scala and P. J.
    Kootsookos.Â "Robust Controller Design for Sinusoidal Disturbance
    Rejection," D*STO Workshop on Applications of Robust Control and
    Filtering in Defence,* Adelaide Australia, May 1997 \[**NOT
    AVAILABLE ONLINE**\].

22. P.J. Kootsookos, D.B. Ward and R.C. Williamson, "Frequency Invariant
    Broadband Beamforming with Exact Null Placement" Proceedings of the
    IEEE Workshop on Statistical Signal and Array Processing (SSAP-96),
    Corfu, June 1996
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:11249)\].

23. B.G. Quinn, R.F. Barrett, P.J. Kootsookos and S.J. Searle, "Array
    Shape Estimation Using a Hidden Markov Model," Proceedings of the
    Technical Cooperation Program (GTP1 and GTP9)[^6], 1993
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10632)\].

24. P.J. Kootsookos, A.C. Tsoi and B.C. Lovell, "Speech Enhancement for
    Robust Speaker Verification," Proceedings of the Speech, Science and
    Technology conference (SST\'92), December 1992, pp.521-526
    [\[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10655)\].

25. P.J. Kootsookos, R.R. Bitmead and M. Green, "FIR(*q*) Filter Design
    Without the Linear Phase Constraint," Proceedings of the
    International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
    (ICASSP\'91), May 1991, pp.1989-1992
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10631)\].

26. B.C. Lovell, P.J. Kootsookos and R.C. Williamson, "The Circular
    Nature of Discrete-Time Frequency Estimates," Proceedings of the
    International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
    (ICASSP\'91), May 1991, pp.3369-3372
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:11245)\].

27. B.C. Lovell, P.J. Kootsookos and R.C. Williamson, "Efficient
    Frequency Estimation and Time-Frequency Representations,"
    International Symposium of Signal Processing and its Applications
    (ISSPA\'90), August 1990, pp.170-173
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10656)\].

28. P.J. Kootsookos, "A Critical Examination of Time-Frequency
    Filtering," International Symposium of Signal Processing and its
    Applications (ISSPA\'90), August 1990, pp.174-177
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10657)\][^7].

29. B. Boashash, B.C. Lovell and P.J. Kootsookos, "Time-Frequency Signal
    Analysis and Instantaneous Frequency Estimation," Proceedings of
    International Symposium on Circuits and Systems (ISCAS\'89), 1989,
    pp.1237-1242
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10630)\].

30. P.J. Kootsookos and B. Boashash, "Signal Synthesis in a
    Time-Frequency Domain Using the Wigner-Ville Distribution,"
    Proceedings of IREECON\'87, September 1987, pp.845-848
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10629)\].

Technical Reports
-----------------

1.  P.J. Kootsookos, "Speech Enhancement for Robust Speaker
    Verification," Speaker Verification Project Technical Report
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10627)\].

2.  P.J. Kootsookos, "Noise Performance of Various Speaker Verification
    Algorithms," Speaker Verification Project Technical Report
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10628)\].

3.  P.J. Kootsookos, "A Review of the Frequency Estimation and Tracking
    Problems," CRASys Technical Report
    \[[eprint](https://espace.library.uq.edu.au/view/UQ:10626)\].

4.  P.J. Kootsookos, "Summary of Currently Available HSM Vibration
    Data," CRASys Technical Report \[**Commercially Restricted**\].

5.  P.J. Kootsookos and J.M. Spanjaard, "Preliminary Analysis of Bearing
    Fault Leading to Failure on or about October 6th, 1995," CRASys
    Technical Report \[**Commercially Restricted**\].

[^1]: CET236 to be taught in the Summer of 2019.

[^2]: CET236 to be taught in the Fall of 2019.

[^3]: CET498 Capstone II to be taught in Fall 2019.

[^4]: MVT was purchased by Agilent Technologies in 03/2001 and is now an
    operation within the Imaging Division of Agilent's Manufacturing
    Test Business Unit, part of Agilent's Automated Test Group.

[^5]: This paper won an Honorable Mention for the 2008 Talbert Abrams
    award.

[^6]: The Technical Cooperation Program is a joint technical program
    between the defense/defence departments of Australia, the USA,
    Canada, New Zealand and the UK.

[^7]: This paper won best poster presentation by a full-time student at
    the symposium.
